Be patient with me a minute as we go back to the very basics.
We've been talking so much about asynchronous code,
but what exactly does it mean to be synchronous?
Understanding the synchronous process is easiest when
you see it in comparison with an asynchronous process.
There are lots of really good analogies for asynchronous synchronous programming.
You might have heard some of them already.
I'm going to use the coffee shop example,
but they're all pretty much the same.
Here's a synchronous analogy.
Picture a coffee shop.
There's a coffee machine and one barista working.
The barista is responsible for taking orders and making coffee.
If that barista is working in a synchronous way, it looks like this.
Two customers lineup at the counter,
the barista takes the order of the first customer,
turns on the coffee machine,
and then waits for the coffee to be done.
When it's finished, the barista hands the coffee to the customer,
and takes the order of the next customer in line.
Does that sound like any coffee shop you've ever been to?
Likely not, because most baristas work in an asynchronous way.
The asynchronous way looks like this.
Two customers line up at the counter,
the first makes their order,
and the barista turns on the coffee machine.
While that coffee is being made,
the barista takes the order of the second customer and starts their coffee.
Now, both customers have been helped and both of their coffees are being made.
The barista gives each customer their drink
in the order the coffee machine finishes each coffee.
So what is synchronous programming?
It is programming in a way that doesn't try to be efficient with time.
Like the barista who waits for the coffee machine as it makes coffee,
instead of moving on to other tasks,
synchronous code will not move on from a task,
even if it is just waiting for a response from something else.
You can see how the asynchronous approach is more efficient,
but can also be more complicated.
Another important thing to notice in this analogy is that there is only ever one barista.
We haven't sped up the process by adding another worker.
Instead, the barista is effectively using their time by
continuing with work they can do while waiting for another task to complete.